# Preparation
We are using another repository for this excercise, so we need to create that repository first.

Go to the template repository with this link: [https://github.com/XpiritBV/gh-developer-games](https://github.com/XpiritBV/gh-developer-games) and click on the green `use this template` button. Use `Create a new repository` if that option is present.

1. Select an owner (this can be your username) from the `Owner` drop down
1. Give it a recognizable repo name. We will be refering to this repo as your `games` repo
1. The repo can be eiter private or public
1. Check the checkbox called `Include all branches`
1. Create the repo and wait for it to become available

# Protected branches
Let's protect our main branch to make sure everyone who wants to make any changes in it needs to follow the Pull Request process.
1. Select the Settings tab. 
2. Select Branches from the menu on the left side of the screen. 
3. Click the Add rule button next to Branch protection rules. 
4. In the Apply rule to textbox type the name of the branch you would like to protect, for example, main. 
5. Click the Create button. 

## Create a CODEOWNERS file
Let's go one step further and improve the collaboration process a bit. By adding a CODEONWERS file we can make certain users and teams owner of a part of the repository by having them automatically added as 'required reviewers` on any Pull Request that touches the code owned by them.

1. Go out to the Code tab of your repository. 
2. Click the Create new file button.
3. In the Name your file... textbox enter CODEOWNERS (no extension necessary). You can add this to a . github/ directory if desired by entering . githuh/CODEOWNERS. 
4. On the first line, type * WYOUR_USERNAME o This means that you will be the default owner for everything in the repo, unless a later match takes preference. 
5. On the next line, type *. j s 0GITHUBTEACHER o Order is important. The last matching pattern for a given change takes precedence.
6. Scroll down, and type a commit message into the Commit new file dialog box. 
7. Click the Commit new file button to save your changes. 
8. Now that you have created a CODEOWNERS file, go back to your branch protection settings and click the Edit button next to main. 
9. Under Rule settings, select the option to Require pull request reviews before merging and Require review from Code Owners. Remember to click Save changes. 
10. See if the CODEOWNERS file is valid, by opening it in read mode again.
10. Go to the files in the folders owned by the CODEOWNERS file and check if the shield icon is present.

If you are using the teacher's handles for this, then the file will __not__ be valid, since they will not have `write` access to the repository. That is a requirement for the CODEOWNERS file to work, since they will need to approve the Pull Requests (and for that you need `write` access).

# Git Bisect: the long way

1. Initiate the binary search: git bisect start. 
2. Specify the commit where you noticed the code was broken: `git bisect bad <SHA>`. 
3. Specify the commit where you knew things were working: `git bisect good <SHA>`. 
4. Bisect will check you out to the midpoint between good and bad. 
5. Run a test to see if the game would work at this point. Our test is to use is to see if an index. html file exists. 
6. If the game is still broken (there is no index. html file), type: git bisect bad. 
7. If the game works (and there is an index. html file), type: git bisect good. 
8. Git will bisect again and wait for you to test. This will happen until Git has enough information to pinpoint the first bad commit. 
9. When Git has detected the error, it will provide a message that SHA is the first bad commit. 
10. Exit the bisect process: git bisect reset. 

## Git Bisect: the short way

1. `git bisect start <bad-SHA> <good-SHA>`
1. git bisedct run ls index.html
1. git bisect reset

## Revert a commit
1. Initialize the revert: `git revert <SHA>`
1. Type a commit message
1. Push your changes to GitHub

## Moving and renaming files with Git
Renaming a file without using the Git commands intended for it will end up in your repository as deleting the file first, and then creating a new file. Looking at the history of the new file will then have no real starting point, which can be very unhelpful if you want to track all changes made in that file.

1. Create a new branch named slow-down. 
2. On line 9 of the index . ht ml file, change the background url to images/texture. jpg. 
3. On line 78, change the timing for the game to speed it up or slow it down. 
4. Save your changes. 
5. See what git is tracking: 
6. git status 
7. Create a new, empty directory: 
8. mkdir images 
9. Move the texture file into the directory with git: `git my texture.jpg images/texture.jpg`

## Staging chunks of changes
1. See what git is tracking: 
2. git status 
3. Move some parts of some files to the staging area with the --patch flag: 
4. git add -p 
5. Stage the hunk related to the image move: y 
6. Leave the hunk related to the speed change in the working area: 'n' 

## Comparing changes within the repository
1. git diff 
2. git diff --staged 
3. git diff HEAD 
4. git diff --color-words 
5. `git diff <REF-1> <REF-2> `
6. git diff main slow-down 
7. git diff origin/main main 
8. git diff 2710 b745 

## Git Tags
1. git log --oneline 
2. `git tag v1.0 <SHA>`
3. git show v1.0 
4. `git tag -a v2.0 <SHA> `
5. git push --tags 
6. git config --global push.followTags true 

## Releases
Create a new release based on the tag we just created.
1. On GitHub, navigate to the Code tab of the repository. 
2. Under your repository name, click Releases. 
3. Click Draft a new release. 
4. Type a name for the tag. We recommend you use semantic versioning. 
5. Select a branch that contains the project you want to release. Usually, you'll want to release against your main branch, unless you're releasing beta software. You can also select a recent commit by choosing the recent commits tab. 
6. Type a title and description that describes your release.
7. If you're ready to publicize your release, click Publish release. Otherwise, click Save draft to work on it later. 

## Workflow discussion
Based on what you have learned today, discuss these topics within your own team:
1. Which branching strategy will we use? 
2. Which branch will serve as our 'main" or deployed code? 
3. How will you protect your code? 
4. Will we use naming conventions for our branches? 
5. How will we use labels and assignees? 
6. Will we use milestones? 
7. Will we have required elements of Issues or Pull Requests (e.g. shipping checklists)? 
8. Who is expected to review your work? Do you plan to involve other teams? 
9. How will we indicate sign-off on Pull Requests? 
10. Who will merge pull requests? 
11. How will you teach your workflow to your team? If it already exists, how is it taught to new hires? 
12. What integrations will be used in different stages of development? Will all teams be using the same tools? 
13. If users have questions about Git, GitHub, or their workflows, who do they ask? How do they know who to ask? 

