# Create a new repository based on the public template repo
Go to the template repository with this link: [https://github.com/XpiritBV/gh-developer-caption-this](https://github.com/XpiritBV/gh-developer-caption-this) and click on the green `use this template` button. Use `Create a new repository` if that option is present.

1. Select an owner (this can be your username) from the `Owner` drop down
1. Give it a recognizable repo name. We will be refering to this repo as your `caption-this` repo
1. The repo can be eiter private or public
1. Check the checkbox called `Include all branches`
1. Create the repo and wait for it to become available

# Creating a branch with GitHub

1. Navigate to the `Code` tab of the your new `caption-this` repository
1. Click the `branch` dropdown
1. Enter the branch name: `add-caption-YOUR-USERNAME`
1. Click on `Create branch from main`

# Configurate your local machine
You need to make sure your local machine has been configured with your user configuration.

## Check you configuration
You can check the local configuration using thse commands:
``` sh
# view the configuration in the current folder
git config --list

# view the global configuration
git config --global --list
```

# Create a local copy of the repo
1. Navigate to the Code tab of the class repository on GitHub: [XpiritBV/gh-developer-caption-this](https://github.com/XpiritBV/gh-developer-caption-this).
1. Click Clone
1. Choose your authentication method: https uses the PAT token, for SSH you need to have configured an SSH key with GitHub
1. Copy the clone URL to your clipboard
1. Open you command line application
1. Retrieve a full copy of the repository from GitHub using `git clone <CLONE-URL>`
1. Once the clone is complete, cd into the new directory created by the clone operation, using `cd <REPOSITORY-NAME>`

<hr/>

## Switching branches
View, find and select a branch to switch to by using these commands:
1. git branch
1. git branch --all
1. git branch -a
1. git switch <BRANCH-NAME>

## Edit your file
Using the newly cloned repository, edit you own file and add some content:

1. Find your file: `_slides/04-attendee.md`
1. Open your file in you favorite text editor
1. On line 6, replace the text with your slide caption
1. Save your file

## Make a local commit
Run through the following commands an make sure you can follow what happens:

1. git status
1. git add my-file.md (dont forget to add the folder path!)
1. git status
1. git commit -m "Updating caption"
1. git status

Now all changes are committed in your local copy of the repository. If you go to the repository on github.com you will see that nothing has been added there. Time to push your local changes to GitHub!

## Push the changes to GitHub

1. `git push`
1. You will see that you need to tell git to match the _local branch_ with the _upstream branch_
1. Use `git push --set-ustream origin <BRANCH-NAME>` like the error states

## Create a Pull Request
1. Click the Pull Request tab. 
2. Click New Pull Request. 
3. In the base dropdown, choose main 
4. In the compare dropdown, choose your branch. 
5. Type a subject line and enter a comment. 
6. Use markdown formatting to add a header and a checklist to your Pull Request. 
7. Include one of the keywords: closes, fixes, or resolves followed by the issue number you created earlier to note which Issue the Pull Request should close. Example: `This resolves #3` .
8. Click _Preview_ to see how your Pull Request will look. 
9. Assign the Pull Request to yourself. 
10. Select your partner as a Reviewer for the Pull Request. 
11. Click Create pull request. 

## Review a Pull Request
Let's create the first pull request on github.com!

1. Click the Pull Request tab. 
2. Review the PR directly below your own 
3. Click the 'Files Changed' tab. 
4. Hover over a single line in the file to see the blue +. Click the + to add a line comment. 
5. Comment on the line and click Start a review. 
6. Click Review changes in the top right corner. 
7. 'Approve' their changes 
8. Enter a general comment for the review. 
9. Click Submit review 

## Merge a Pull Request
Time to review and merge the changes from your branch into the main branch.

1. Navigate to your Pull Request (HINT: Use the Author or Assignee drop downs to find your Pull Request quickly) 
2. Click Conversation 
3. Scroll to the bottom of the Pull Request and click the Merge pull request button 
4. Click Confirm merge 
5. Click Delete branch 

## Update local repo 
The changes you made on github.com are not visible locally yet. For that we need to go to the main bracn and pull in the changes from the remote.
1. Start by switching back to your default branch: git switch main 
2. Retrieve all of the changes from GitHub: git pull 

## Clean up after yourself!
The branch you made locally is still present on your local repo, even though we deleted the linked branch on the remote. Let's clean things up and keep the number of branches to only the branches we still need. That makes our lives easier!

Run through these commands and make sure you know what they do for you:
1. git branch --all 
2. git branch --merged 
3. git branch -d <branch-name> 
4. git branch --all 
5. git pull --prune 
6. git config --global fetch.prune true 

## Use `git log`
* git log 
* git log --oneline 
* git log --oneline --graph 
* git log --oneline --graph --decorate 
* git log --oneline --graph --decorate --all 

## Creating custom aliasses

``` sh
# Original Command
git log --oneline --graph --decorate --all

# Creating the Alias
git config --global alias.lol "log --oneline --graph --decorate --all" 

# Using the Alias 
git lol
```
