# Preparation
We are using another repository for the merging the conflicting branches, so we need to create that repository first.

Go to the template repository with this link: [https://github.com/XpiritBV/gh-developer-conflict-practice](https://github.com/XpiritBV/gh-developer-conflict-practice) and click on the green `use this template` button. Use `Create a new repository` if that option is present.

1. Select an owner (this can be your username) from the `Owner` drop down
1. Give it a recognizable repo name. We will be referring to this repo as your `merge-conflicts` repo
1. The repo can be eater private or public
1. Check the checkbox called `Include all branches`
1. Create the repo and wait for it to become available

## Enable the features we need to create the Pull Requests:
1. Go to the `Settings` tab of your repository
1. Go to the `Actions` tab
1. Or use the link: https://github.com/OWNER/REPO/settings/actions
1. Enable the Allow GitHub Actions checkbox at the bottom of the page
1. Save the settings

Now for the next part:
1. Go to the Actions Tab of the repo
1. Click enable workflows for this repo
1. Select the single workflow on the left
1. Start the workflow with the "Start workflow" button
1. This automation will create 3 pull requests in the repository that can be used for the exercises (go through the PR's from top to bottom)

# Resolving merge conflicts
Based on the demos, let's fix the merge conflicts in your repository. Make sure you do the last merge conflict on your local machine!
1. Use the GitHub UI to resolve your first 2 conflict
1. Use your command line to resolve the third merge conflict

## Updating the README.md
Let's run through the entire workflow end-to-end for creating changes and making/merging a pull request, to make sure you know how this works.

These are the steps:
1. git clone URL 
2. git switch -c readme-update 
3. Edit the URL in the README.md. 
4. Commit the changes to your branch. 
5. git push -u origin readme-update 
6. Create a Pull Request in your repository (base: main, compare: readme-update) 
7. Merge your Pull Request. 
8. Delete the branch on GitHub. 
9. Update your local copy of the repository: git pull --prune 